INTRODUCTION
============

Image synthesis is widely applied by GANs for a few years, the result of
GANs on medical images are relatively satisfied but lack of flexibility
and the precision in image details \[1\]. The raising of Diffusion
models are showing the supreme outperformance than GANs in Text-to-image
generation tasks, like DALL-E \[2\]. The images that generated by
Diffusion models are increasingly improving and have a trending that is
even better than human being's creations.\[3\] However, the original
Diffusion Models are suffering from slow reverse inference time cost and
the lack of stability of the result in each Markov Chain. This is not
ideal in medical domain image generation. Hence, here we applied a new
Denoising Diffusion models that can be adjusted and lower the noises in
every few steps in the reverse inference process. \[4\] are showing
delightful results by increasing step size T with this idea. And hereby,
we wish to use admitting a progressive lossy decompression scheme that
can be interpreted as a generalization of autoregressive decoding \[5\]
to further improve the performance of \[4\]'s model.

PROBLEM STATEMENT
=================

Rare diseases' medical scans are very hard to obtain in world-wide
range. Most of time, those images are belong to patients themselves or
some of the best hospitals, who would like not to share. Hence, by using
image synthesis from limited amount of rare medical scans that are
already publicly published, we can create more scans that are related to
certain diseases, which are un-restricted by the confidential agreement
between two parties. And using those model generated images, we can help
doctors or medical students to learn those diseases without too many
difficulties. The current model of GANs needs more computation resources
to train and the inference time is large than the Diffusion models
\[6\]. Here, we would like to try the state-of-art technique for image
synthesis by Denosing Diffusion model to solve this task.


H. Huang, P. S. Yu, και C. Wang, 'An Introduction to Image Synthesis
with Generative Adversarial Nets'. arXiv, 2018.

A. Ramesh κ.ά., 'Zero-Shot Text-to-Image Generation'. arXiv, 2021.

J. Yu κ.ά., 'Vector-quantized Image Modeling with Improved VQGAN'.
arXiv, 2021.

M. Özbey κ.ά., 'Unsupervised Medical Image Translation with Adversarial
Diffusion Models'. arXiv, 2022.

J. Ho, A. Jain, and P. Abbeel, 'Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic
Models'. arXiv, 2020.

S. U. Dar, M. Yurt, L. Karacan, A. Erdem, E. Erdem, and T. C¸ ukur,
"Image synthesis in multi-contrast MRI with conditional generative
adversarial networks," IEEE Trans. Med. Imag., vol. 38, no. 10, pp.
2375--2388, 2019.

B. Yu, L. Zhou, L. Wang, Y. Shi, J. Fripp, and P. Bourgeat, "Ea-GANs:
Edge-aware generative adversarial networks for cross-modality MR image
synthesis," IEEE Trans. Med. Imag., vol. 38, no. 7, pp. 1750--1762,
2019.

A. Sharma and G. Hamarneh, "Missing MRI pulse sequence synthesis using
multi-modal generative adversarial network," IEEE Trans. Med. Imag.,
vol. 39, pp. 1170--1183, 2020.

G. Wang et al., "Synthesize high-quality multi-contrast magnetic
resonance imaging from multi-echo acquisition using multi-task deep
generative model," IEEE Trans. Med. Imag., vol. 39, no. 10, pp.
3089--3099, 2020.

L. Yang κ.ά., 'Diffusion Models: A Comprehensive Survey of Methods and
Applications'. arXiv, 2022.

F. A. Fardo, V. H. Conforto, F. C. de Oliveira, και P. S. Rodrigues, 'A
Formal Evaluation of PSNR as Quality Measurement Parameter for Image
Segmentation Algorithms'. arXiv, 2016.

J. Nilsson και T. Akenine-Möller, 'Understanding SSIM'. arXiv, 2020.

M. Mirza και S. Osindero, 'Conditional Generative Adversarial Nets'.
arXiv, 2014.

M.-Y. Liu, T. Breuel, και J. Kautz, 'Unsupervised Image-to-Image
Translation Networks'. arXiv, 2017.

J. Ho, A. Jain, και P. Abbeel, 'Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic
Models'. arXiv, 2020.

A. Jog, A. Carass, S. Roy, D. L. Pham, and J. L. Prince, "Random forest
regression for magnetic resonance image synthesis," Med. Image Anal.,
vol. 35, pp. 475--488, 2017.

J.A. Vaswani et al., 'Attention Is All You Need'. arXiv, 2017.

K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, 'Deep Residual Learning for Image
Recognition'. arXiv, 2015.

Z. Liu, H. Mao, C.-Y. Wu, C. Feichtenhofer, T. Darrell, and S. Xie, 'A
ConvNet for the 2020s'. arXiv, 2022.
